README.md, before:

# Rest-Json-Active-Record Project

## Getting Started
Wellcome to my Project with Rest-Json API with Active Record Pattern with the Quarkus FrameWork related to Java. This project is 
where I put the things that I've been learning about the tutorials of Quarkus related to creation of a API in Quarkus using Active Record Pattern

## Guides that I Followed:
https://quarkus.io/guides/hibernate-orm-panache
<br>
And and OpenWebinas Course about Quarkus.
<br>
https://github.com/dfleta/quarkus-active-record-pattern by @dfleta GitHub user

### Important: If you want more details about why there are a lot of branches and my process you can go to Reflection's section

<br>

[![status application](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-stable-brightgreen)](URL_Proyecto)

<!--Logos-->

<br>

<img src="./doc/img/quarkus-logo.png" width="180px">

<br>

<img src="./doc/img/java.png" width="180px">

<br>

<img src="./doc/img/apache_maven.png" width="180px">

<br>

<img src="./doc/img/logocifp.png" width="180px">


## Tabla de Contenidos

1. [Tecnologías Usadas](#tecnologias-usadas)
1. [Apuntes](#apuntes)
1. [Reflexiones](#reflexiones)
1. [Licencia](#licencia)
1. [Detalles Quarkus](#detalles-quarkus)

---

## Tecnologías Usadas

- Java JDK 11
- Maven
- Visual Studio Code
- IntelliJ
- Git
- Docker
- Quarkus
- Panache
- TestContainers PostGreSQL


**[⬆ back to top](#tabla-de-contenidos)**


---

## Apuntes

### Execute DB PostGreSQL container
```
$ docker run -ti --rm -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=develop -e  POSTGRES_USER=develop -e POSTGRES_DB=fruitsdb -p 3000:5432 postgres:latest
```



**[⬆ back to top](#tabla-de-contenidos)**

---

## Reflexiones
### Que has mejorado con este proyecto?
This Project has let me to learn how to create a simple API REST using Active Record Pattern, first of all I use the mayority of code from repository:

https://github.com/dfleta/quarkus-active-record-pattern

Provided by @dfleta user which I used to learn and understand the concepts fo the pattern and how the test works. After I put this code in a specific Branch called: feature/activeRecordFruits, you can see it here:

https://github.com/cifpfbmoll/active-record-patter-MateoGarciaG/tree/feature/activeRecordFruits

I did this because I want to create new Entities apart from the origin code provided by @dfleta to practice by my own with my test cases and the Service and Controller methods to learn the process from beginning until the end of how to create and API with active record pattern and the test cases.

My new API is about Students and Universities.


**[⬆ back to top](#tabla-de-contenidos)**


---



## Licencia

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 Mateo Garcia Gonzalez

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.


**[⬆ back to top](#tabla-de-contenidos)**

---


## Autor
Mateo Garcia Gonzalez



---

# Detalles Quarkus
## getting-started project

This project uses Quarkus, the Supersonic Subatomic Java Framework.

If you want to learn more about Quarkus, please visit its website: https://quarkus.io/ .

## Running the application in dev mode

You can run your application in dev mode that enables live coding using:
```shell script
./mvnw compile quarkus:dev
```

> **_NOTE:_**  Quarkus now ships with a Dev UI, which is available in dev mode only at http://localhost:8080/q/dev/.

## Packaging and running the application

The application can be packaged using:
```shell script
./mvnw package
```
It produces the `quarkus-run.jar` file in the `target/quarkus-app/` directory.
Be aware that it’s not an _über-jar_ as the dependencies are copied into the `target/quarkus-app/lib/` directory.

If you want to build an _über-jar_, execute the following command:
```shell script
./mvnw package -Dquarkus.package.type=uber-jar
```

The application is now runnable using `java -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar`.

## Creating a native executable

You can create a native executable using: 
```shell script
./mvnw package -Pnative
```

## TIP Creating a native executable
Or, if you don't have GraalVM installed, you can run the native executable build in a container using: 
```shell script
./mvnw package -Pnative -Dquarkus.native.container-build=true
```

You can then execute your native executable with: `./target/getting-started-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner`

If you want to learn more about building native executables, please consult https://quarkus.io/guides/maven-tooling.html.

## Provided examples

### RESTEasy JAX-RS example

REST is easy peasy with this Hello World RESTEasy resource.

[Related guide section...](https://quarkus.io/guides/getting-started#the-jax-rs-resources)

**[⬆ back to top](#tabla-de-contenidos)**

---

Commit message:

docs: :memo: Update README with message related to API students

README.md, after:

# Rest-Json-Active-Record Project

## Getting Started
Wellcome to my Project with Rest-Json API with Active Record Pattern with the Quarkus FrameWork related to Java. This project is 
where I put the things that I've been learning about the tutorials of Quarkus related to creation of a API in Quarkus using Active Record Pattern.
This API is about students data.

## Guides that I Followed:
https://quarkus.io/guides/hibernate-orm-panache
<br>
And and OpenWebinas Course about Quarkus.
<br>
https://github.com/dfleta/quarkus-active-record-pattern by @dfleta GitHub user

### Important: If you want more details about why there are a lot of branches and my process you can go to Reflections's section

<br>

[![status application](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-stable-brightgreen)](URL_Proyecto)

<!--Logos-->

<br>

<img src="./doc/img/quarkus-logo.png" width="180px">

<br>

<img src="./doc/img/java.png" width="180px">

<br>

<img src="./doc/img/apache_maven.png" width="180px">

<br>

<img src="./doc/img/logocifp.png" width="180px">


## Tabla de Contenidos

1. [Tecnologías Usadas](#tecnologias-usadas)
1. [Apuntes](#apuntes)
1. [Reflexiones](#reflexiones)
1. [Licencia](#licencia)
1. [Detalles Quarkus](#detalles-quarkus)

---

## Tecnologías Usadas

- Java JDK 11
- Maven
- Visual Studio Code
- IntelliJ
- Git
- Docker
- Quarkus
- Panache
- TestContainers PostGreSQL


**[⬆ back to top](#tabla-de-contenidos)**


---

## Apuntes

### Execute DB PostGreSQL container
```
$ docker run -ti --rm -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=develop -e  POSTGRES_USER=develop -e POSTGRES_DB=fruitsdb -p 3000:5432 postgres:latest
```



**[⬆ back to top](#tabla-de-contenidos)**

---

## Reflexiones
### Que has mejorado con este proyecto?
This Project has let me to learn how to create a simple API REST using Active Record Pattern, first of all I use the mayority of code from repository:

https://github.com/dfleta/quarkus-active-record-pattern

Provided by @dfleta user which I used to learn and understand the concepts fo the pattern and how the test works. After I put this code in a specific Branch called: feature/activeRecordFruits, you can see it here:

https://github.com/cifpfbmoll/active-record-patter-MateoGarciaG/tree/feature/activeRecordFruits

I did this because I want to create new Entities apart from the origin code provided by @dfleta to practice by my own with my test cases and the Service and Controller methods to learn the process from beginning until the end of how to create and API with active record pattern and the test cases.

My new API is about Students and Universities.


**[⬆ back to top](#tabla-de-contenidos)**


---



## Licencia

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 Mateo Garcia Gonzalez

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.


**[⬆ back to top](#tabla-de-contenidos)**

---


## Autor
Mateo Garcia Gonzalez



---

# Detalles Quarkus
## getting-started project

This project uses Quarkus, the Supersonic Subatomic Java Framework.

If you want to learn more about Quarkus, please visit its website: https://quarkus.io/ .

## Running the application in dev mode

You can run your application in dev mode that enables live coding using:
```shell script
./mvnw compile quarkus:dev
```

> **_NOTE:_**  Quarkus now ships with a Dev UI, which is available in dev mode only at http://localhost:8080/q/dev/.

## Packaging and running the application

The application can be packaged using:
```shell script
./mvnw package
```
It produces the `quarkus-run.jar` file in the `target/quarkus-app/` directory.
Be aware that it’s not an _über-jar_ as the dependencies are copied into the `target/quarkus-app/lib/` directory.

If you want to build an _über-jar_, execute the following command:
```shell script
./mvnw package -Dquarkus.package.type=uber-jar
```

The application is now runnable using `java -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar`.

## Creating a native executable

You can create a native executable using: 
```shell script
./mvnw package -Pnative
```

## TIP Creating a native executable
Or, if you don't have GraalVM installed, you can run the native executable build in a container using: 
```shell script
./mvnw package -Pnative -Dquarkus.native.container-build=true
```

You can then execute your native executable with: `./target/getting-started-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner`

If you want to learn more about building native executables, please consult https://quarkus.io/guides/maven-tooling.html.

## Provided examples

### RESTEasy JAX-RS example

REST is easy peasy with this Hello World RESTEasy resource.

[Related guide section...](https://quarkus.io/guides/getting-started#the-jax-rs-resources)

**[⬆ back to top](#tabla-de-contenidos)**

---
